# Powerful Pre-Sales: Sales Call Preparation For Consultants Who Want To Win More Clients

## Summary
- So, what happens so often is that the consultant  will use this conversation as an opportunity to tell the buyer all about their methodology.
- The idea behind this is that you want to put all this information into the hands of the idea of the dream client before you actually have that conversation with them.
- Proof helps to essentially, right, eliminate or significantly reduce risk.
- All this stuff is very, very powerful in providing proof and it helps the buyer to feel less risk because there's so much proof on the table in front of them.
- The solution and the opportunity, right, is to turn this very much into a conversation.
- The idea is that they get to see all of this proof material before you actually jump onto a call.

## Action Items
- So now this conversation can be, it doesn't need to be sales any longer, right, now it's just a real valuable conversation, right, and it's very much a two sided, collaborative conversation where you can spend your time focusing on them.
- All these elements, testimonials, case studies, articles you've written, white papers, books, right?
- It actually makes the process better for both parties, because you better understand each other, and you get to spend this time talking about each other, as opposed to having to try and do the whole sales thing.
- Here's the tip and kind of the approach, is you want to take all of this, you want to take the proof about you, about why you and your company, your brand are so good, the case studies, the testimonials, the articles, the videos, the presentations, the awards, all of it, right?
- One of the most common mistakes that consultants make when they try to win more business is that  they spend too much time in a conversation with the buyer trying to convince the buyer why the buyer should choose them over someone else.
- Here if you're trying to sell, if you're very one-sided talking, what is what you do?

## Deep Summary
- Now this conversation can be, it doesn't need to be sales any longer, right, now it's just a real valuable conversation, right, and it's very much a two sided, collaborative conversation where you can spend your time focusing on them.
- All these elements, testimonials, case studies, articles you've written, white papers, books, right?
- It actually makes the process better for both parties, because you better understand each other, and you get to spend this time talking about each other, as opposed to having to try and do the whole sales thing.
- Here's the tip and kind of the approach, is you want to take all of this, you want to take the proof about you, about why you and your company, your brand are so good, the case studies, the testimonials, the articles, the videos, the presentations, the awards, all of it, right?

## Transcript
If you want to win more consulting clients, what about the share with you can can really make a big difference. One of the most common mistakes that consultants make when they try to win more business is that  they spend too much time in a conversation with the buyer trying to convince the buyer why the buyer should choose them over someone else. And so here's what it often looks like. You have the the consultant here, we'll say  Consultant  Okay, hopefully you hear that and then we have over here the buyer. So, what happens so often is that the consultant  will use this conversation as an opportunity to tell the buyer all about their methodology. The awards they've won. How many years they've been in business, right? Why they're so great? The problem with this is that as you can see it's very one sided, right? This comes across as feeling very  very salesy. Because it is, right? If you're only talking about yourself, if you're saying about how good you are and how you work and all kind of stuff. And you're just doing all one in one direction. It's not a conversation, right? It's like a sales pitch and that's how a buyer feels about it. And so what do most buyers do when that happens? They put their guard up, right? They they try and protect themselves because they don't feel comfortable, right? They feel they can really sense this person wants to sell them. And when most people is that common saying that nobody likes to be sold to, but you know, people like to buy, but not to be sold to you. Here if you're trying to sell, if you're very one-sided talking, what is what you do? You're likely going to have the wrong dynamic at play, right? You're not going to be benefiting from it. The solution and the opportunity, right, is to turn this very much into a conversation. And the way that you turn this into a conversation is that you remove the element of having to talk about why you're so good in this conversation. So how do you do that, right? How can you essentially provide a lot of proof? Because that's that's really what we're talking about here, right? How do you provide proof that you are an expert, right? That that you've been able to achieve results. Can you see that? Hopefully you can see that there. You know, and all the other good stuff that you've done, right? That's what proof is all about. Proof helps to essentially, right, eliminate or significantly reduce risk. Because that's what holds buyers back from wanting to engage, is they feel this person, this come, this brand, are they really going to be able to provide and do what they say they're going to do, right? There's a lot of risk on the table, not only in financial risk, but there's the risk of what if we invest a lot of time in this and it doesn't work out. There's the risk of having to move employees or team members away off of what they're currently working on to support the initiative. So anything and everything that you can do to provide proof that you've done this for others like them before, that you have a track record of success, that you are an expert in your area, right? All these elements, testimonials, case studies, articles you've written, white papers, books, right? All this stuff is very, very powerful in providing proof and it helps the buyer to feel less risk because there's so much proof on the table in front of them. So here's the strategy, right? Here's the tip and kind of the approach, is you want to take all of this, you want to take the proof about you, about why you and your company, your brand are so good, the case studies, the testimonials, the articles, the videos, the presentations, the awards, all of it, right? And what you want to actually do is you want to front-load it, you want to have it here into what we call like a pre-sales processor component, so that the idea behind it, and I'll make this real simple, I don't need to spend more time drawing on the board and I'll just kind of let me go a little bit short here so I'll hope that I'm in the frame. The idea behind this is that you want to put all this information into the hands of the idea of the dream client before you actually have that conversation with them. So it could happen in multiple stages, you know, if you're sending emails or you follow-ups and sharing some of this with them. It could also happen the moment that you schedule a call with a buyer, you send them an email or you send them a package. It could even be in the mail, right, physical mail is very powerful for this as well. The idea is that they get to see all of this proof material before you actually jump onto a call. And so now when you have your conversation and call with a buyer, you don't need to spend your time talking about how good you are or what you've done to the results you've created it, because it's already been said and hasn't been said by you, it's been said by the information itself. And so that's much more powerful, right, rather than you trying to talk about how good you are, what this do that work for you. So when you have a conversation with a buyer, you're actually going to be able to serve them at a much higher level, because your focus will not be on talking about yourself or your tracker, your focus will be on the buyer, right, on their situation, almost important to them, their problems, their desires, their goals. Now this conversation can be, it doesn't need to be sales any longer, right, now it's just a real valuable conversation, right, and it's very much a two sided, collaborative conversation where you can spend your time focusing on them. And that tends to create a much better outcome in terms of the conversation, but also because the buyer is already, quote unquote, pre-sold, right, they've already seen all this proof, they come into it, seeing you as an expert, they already come into it, seeing you as the authority that you want to be seen. And so now the dynamic of that conversation as well is significantly enhanced for the betterment of both parties. It actually makes the process better for both parties, because you better understand each other, and you get to spend this time talking about each other, as opposed to having to try and do the whole sales thing. So that's one tip, if you're not currently, if you don't have a pre-sales process in your business right now, highly encourage you to do that, of course, if you ever want help with any of these things, we have a lot of resources, actconseltingsuccess. com or feel free to get in touch. But there you have it. I encourage you to look at your current process. Do you have a pre-sales process? Do you not? If you don't put it one in? If you do, think about how you might be able to improve it. Have a great day.
